---
tags: [Other Stuff]
---
## Nuke Your Friends

[Here is a convoluted two-player command line game I made for a Cognitive Science course a while back, based on the prisoner's dilemma.](https://github.com/SDeanEgan/globalthermonuclearwar/) 

<hr />

The original system of the prisoner's dilemma is extremely brief. Two participants choose between two options, which combine to produce an overall outcome that affects them both. Their choices are between attempting to cooperate with one another and defecting against the other participant. To run the exercise, the two participants are informed of the potential consequences of their choices and made to choose without any ability to communicate beforehand. Once the choices are made the outcome is revealed and the exercise is over. One expansion (of many) of the prisoner's dilemma has been to repeat the exercise in multiple successions in order to see how the behavior of the participants changes across them. It was from here - the iterated version - that I decided to try and explore. My original premise was simply: can the prisoner's dilemma be expanded beyond a binary choice made by the participants. With the right tuning of outcomes, it appears that it can. While constructing the new exercise I decided that three choices was too close to the original, and went with five. Knowing that the prisoner's dilemma produces a quadratic number of outcomes I decided that the complexity of five choices would require allowing for intercommunication between participants, would work better as a sort of race to the bottom, and that the number of iterations performed could then be dictated by the participants themselves. Another important detail would be how the exercise was framed, because of all the added complexity. Although the film never clearly illustrates it, 1983's <i>WarGames</i> describes a simulation which would reasonably correspond to this premise (I had watched the film a few months prior), and so my version of <i>Global Thermonuclear War</i> was born. 


The work was far from complete though; from there it was a matter of constructing a system of losses and gains to correspond with the premise of the new exercise. I worked out that with twenty-five outcomes per attack it was possible to see not only the familiar outcomes of a nuclear exchange (total annihilation, cooperative prevention of a launch), but also that different scales of attack in-between annihilation and ceasefire could be combined with the possibility of a personal bonus made by consuming the resource points of an opponent to tantalize a player into trying a middling approach. With some time spent tooling the outcomes, the exercise allows for a player to at least attempt to come out ahead of where they start (though hypothetically implausible) as well as for the other to exact some retribution before the consequences of their actions are borne out. 


Having worked out how to run the game on paper I knew that getting the game completed would only be a matter of taking the necessary time to get a coded version finished. Python provides more than enough flexibility here. Although the game is simple, and uses the command line only, it is not without some sense of presentation. Quitting from the user is handled properly, whether by requesting to do so via a prompt or via Control+C. A splash screen and introductory explanations are used to help the user get started with the game. Pauses, prompting the user to continue, and clearing the terminal window are used to prevent the script from creating a long scroll of text on the window - keeping the experience immediate. However, this functionality is not available when the script is run here, in a jupyter notebook file. So, I highly recommend pasting the code below into an empty "gtw.py" file and running it from a terminal (or command prompt) in order to get the intended experience. 
